# CODE BOOK FOR COURSE PROJECT run_analysis.R

This code book provides information on the tidy data set generated by the R script run_analysis.R

## Original data

The original data set represents data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description of the data set is described at the website where the original data was obtained: 

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

## Tidy data set

The R script run_analysis.R first merges the training and the test sets to create one data set including subjects and activity labels for each measurement. It then extracts only the columns on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. The activity labels are further replaced by descriptive activity names. Finally, a second, independent tidy data set is created providing the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.The tidy data set contains all the average measures for each subject and activity type (30 subjects * 6 activities = 180 rows).

### Variables

The first variable provides the subject number that performed the activity. In total the data set contains data of 30 subjects numbered 1 to 30.
The second variable provides the type of activity performed by the subject. In total data on 6 activities is available. Activities included in the data set are:

WALKING
WALKING_UPSTAIRS
WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
SITTING
STANDING
LAYING

Further variables were selected from the original data and show the mean and standard deviation of the measurements. A full description of the variables can be obtained from the file features_info.txt, included with the original dataset.